The Top 7 Marketing Reporting Software Solutions for 2023

DENIS KHALTURIN
APRIL 5, 2023
Whether you’re working for an agency or an in-house marketing team, your schedule can drastically change depending on the project. But there’s one task all marketers have in common: reporting. 

Basic data tracking, visualization, and reporting make up a decent portion of a marketing team’s time. Marketing reporting software can be incredibly valuable in automating the reporting process and saving your organization money and 27–40% of their time. 

This article will dive into the 7 best reporting tools for marketing and how you can use them to your advantage.


What Is Marketing Reporting Software?
The traditional approach to reporting is to grind away over a spreadsheet for the entire month, compiling data and quantifying metrics. The manual method has several downsides. For one, it's time-consuming and tedious. You have to go to dozens of marketing platforms, aggregate data from all ad accounts by hand, and then manually make unions and joins in an attempt to clean and normalize the data. Manual reporting efforts can also lead to errors and a lack of accuracy, significantly influencing the quality and speed of decision-making. Automated reporting is the way forward.

Marketing reporting software is designed to help businesses and marketing teams track, analyze, and report on their marketing campaigns and initiatives. The software collects data from various marketing channels and provides insights into how well campaigns are performing, which tactics are working, and where improvements can be made.

Marketing reporting tools typically include dashboard reporting, analytics, data visualization, and automation capabilities. The software lets marketers quickly generate reports summarizing key metrics, such as website traffic, leads generated, and sales revenue. This data can be used to measure campaigns' success, identify improvement areas, and make data-driven decisions to optimize future marketing initiatives and drive growth and revenue.


Best Marketing Reporting Software
As you’ve gathered by now, every marketing team needs stand-out marketing reporting software. The vast array of available options make selecting the most suitable one a daunting task. This section thoroughly examines some of the best marketing reporting software available on the market, highlighting their key features, benefits, and pricing.  

1. Improvado
 Improvado is an automated marketing reporting software solution.
Improvado is an automated reporting tool and marketing analytics platform. This end-to-end solution assists at every stage of the marketing reporting cycle, from data collection to report customization.

Improvado aggregates data from an infinite number of marketing and sales platforms. It comes with 500 native data source integrations and an option to request a custom data connector, which is available to every customer through Data Extraction Customization Service (DECS) points. 

From there, the intelligent data transformation software cleans and transforms it before pushing analysis-ready data to any destination. The automated approach to data transformation saves marketing departments 80-100 hours per week and an average of 30% of marketing resources. In addition, it lays the foundation for accurate and timely decision-making.

Improvado integrates with Power BI, Redash, Tableau, and many other data visualization, business intelligence (BI), and analytics platforms, so no additional time and resource investment is required. 

Improvado also provides dashboard templates as a part of its Marketing Common Data Model (MCDM). The tool comes with a pre-built cross-channel Data Studio dashboard and a number of templates so that you can get an ultra-granular picture of all your marketing efforts. 

To get assistance on the report or an external expert opinion, a client can reach out to the Improvado Professional Services team. The team helps with dashboard customization and other technical issues like custom data sources connection, flat-file feed, and custom data transformations.

Pros
Versatility: 500+ native data connectors make Improvado a versatile automated reporting tool. An ability to aggregate data from a large number of data sources and present it in an organized manner helps brands get a holistic view of all their marketing activities, no matter the platform. 
Scalability: The capacity to process large volumes of data, multiple customization options, and flexible pricing make Improvado a scalable solution. Improvado smoothly processes petabytes of data. The software will continue to run seamlessly whether you connect new data sources, add new users and ad accounts, or ten-times increase the number of data rows. Similarly, if your technical needs grow, Improvado can offer enterprise-grade self-service solutions to substitute out-of-the-box ones.
Ease of use: Improvado is a no-code solution, which makes the platform suitable for users at all skill levels. 
High data granularity: Improvado pulls a large number of metrics and dimensions from the supported sources, which allows marketers to go deep into their performance analysis and see how to maximize each channel. 
Cons
You will need to allocate some time for the initial setup. The learning curve ranges from two weeks to two months, depending on the features you decide to master. 
Get a product tour from the Improvado team
Share some details about your case and set a date to discuss it with an Improvado product expert. On a 30-min call, you will review your company's business objectives and data usage and see how Improvado can meet your needs.

Schedule a call
Pricing
Improvado operates on a custom pricing model, which is tailored to your marketing department's needs and wants. That way, you only pay for the features you actually use. 

To get a quote, you'll first need to schedule a 30-min call with a company representative to discuss your data usage and business objectives to see how Improvado can assist in your case.

Clients also get Data Extraction Customization Service (DECS) points, which they can use on adding custom connectors, new report types, metrics, and dimensions for existing and custom data sources, or flat-file ingestion.


2. Whatagraph
Whatagraph is a marketing reporting tool built for small businesses and agencies.
Whatagraph is another marketing-specific reporting software. The tool automates key report generation processes, from data aggregation to visualization and sharing.

Whatagraph extracts data from 40 data sources, while the Whatagraph Public API allows users to import data from any external data source or website into their account. The tool offers 95 pre-designed report templates that cater to diverse use cases. Custom dashboards can be built from scratch using drag-and-drop widgets. Custom metrics and formulas can be applied to enhance the accuracy and relevance of the reports.

Additionally, Whatagraph offers a white labeling option for marketing agencies seeking greater customization capabilities while sharing dashboards with clients. Agencies can personalize their reports with branding elements, such as logos, color schemes, and fonts.

Pros
Whatagraph doesn't require users to have any coding or technical skills to operate it. This marketing reporting software allows reports to be generated quickly and easily without technical expertise.
Whatagraph is a good entrance point to automated marketing reporting. The platform meets all the needs of marketing teams at small-business brands.
Cons
While Whatagraph offers integrations with 40 native sources, it may not support niche integrations, which can impact the effectiveness of data reporting and analysis.
The limited filtering options of Whatagraph restrict advanced data analysis, making it challenging to analyze data sets that require more granular filtering and gain deeper insights.
Whatagraph doesn't provide advanced analysis features. This may require businesses to supplement the platform with other tools or applications, which can be costly and time-consuming.
Whatagraph serves as the final destination for your data—the tool doesn't push it to any external BI, analytics, or visualization tool. While the platform now supports warehouse integration and has started pushing data to BigQuery, this feature is still in beta.
In general, the platform is more suitable for smaller businesses and marketing agencies.

Global brands tend to go with Improvado–a solution that comes with advanced features, a large catalog of data source connectors, endless customization options, and is capable of processing large volumes of data. Book a consultation with an Improvado expert to see how the solution can streamline your global marketing reporting.

Pricing
Whatagraph's pricing model operates on a three-tier system: Professional, Premium, and Custom. The Professional and Premium tiers are priced at $199 and $299 monthly, respectively. For the Custom tier, pricing is determined on a per-customer basis depending on their specific needs. All three plans have a 7-day free trial period and a 30-day money-back guarantee.

3. Klipfolio
Klipfolio is a low-code business intelligence and reporting tool.
Klipfolio is a low-code marketing reporting and analytics tool focused on dashboard reporting. It offers multiple tools to aggregate data from all your marketing channels: 100 native data source connectors, spreadsheets, REST APIs, and FTP. However, requesting custom connectors is not an option with this platform.

Klipfolio provides plenty of pre-built templates and over 200 pre-built visualizations, which can be helpful if you’re new to marketing data dashboards. Marketers can use these templates as a jumping-off point and a solid foundation, and from there, customize their report with CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and iframes. In addition, the platform features an overview functionality that offers quick access to insights. 

To go beyond standard features and pre-built templates, Klipfolio users need some technical skills. The Klipfolio team provides professional services to help with customization. 

Pros
The easy-to-use drag-and-drop report-building feature allows marketers to build a dashboard and play around with data quickly.
Klipfolio's support for CSS, HTML, JavaScript, and iframes allows users to get pixel-level control of visualization and get creative with their dashboard customization.
Cons
Klipfolio's broad application results in a lack of data granularity, meaning marketers won't be able to perform in-depth analysis.
Current customers complain about Klipfolio not being the real-time marketing reporting software it claims to be. Additionally, the platform operates slowly, even when processing small volumes of data.
Pricing
Klipfolio has two primary pricing categories: Businesses and Enterprises. Under Businesses, there are three pricing plans available:

Grow: priced at $99 per month, allowing a maximum of 15 dashboards, a 1-hour refresh rate, and email support.
Team: priced at $199 per month, providing up to 30 dashboards, a 15-minute refresh rate, and priority support.
Team+: priced at $399 per month, enabling up to 60 dashboards, 1-minute refresh rates, faster computing, and 1:1 onboarding support.
All three Business plans provide an unlimited number of users, access to all native integrations, report automation, and basic dashboard customization.

For Enterprises, Klipfolio offers customized pricing depending on specific requirements, starting at $499 monthly.


4. Databox
Databox is an automated reporting tool.
Databox is another automated reporting tool that's popular for tracking and sharing KPIs. The platform offers native connectors to 70 data sources and compensates for this by allowing custom integration requests. Databox includes thousands of default metrics, preset Datablocks, and over 200 report templates with each integration.

With Databox, users can leverage the drag-and-drop builder to create customized dashboards and visualize company metrics according to their preferences. The platform also provides a query builder that allows users to create custom metrics and gain more detailed insights into team or company-wide performance. However, it's important to note that the Query Builder is only compatible with limited integrations.

Databox also has iOS and Android apps that users can utilize for accessing insights anywhere.

Pros
There's a unique feature in Databox you don't often see with other tools. Databox calls it “Looped Dashboards,” which allows you to connect dashboards and create a master report. 
The no-code nature and an emphasis on drag-and-drop functionality make the platform a good option for non-technical users and beginners.
Cons
Databox doesn't offer the same level of dashboard customization and control over data as other marketing reporting platforms. Current customers also note that custom mapping within the platform can be challenging to achieve.
There have been complaints from some customers regarding the quality of data source connectors. Sometimes, connection with the source is lost, resulting in the loss of historical data vital for reporting.
Pricing
Databox offers a free account option that allows users to get started on the platform. However, this option is limited to only three data source connection points.

Paid plans on the platform include Starter, Professional, and Performer: 

The Starter plan costs $72 per month, providing four data source connections and databoards. This plan supports up to five users, offers 11 months of historical data, and provides 24-hour refresh timeframes.
The Professional plan, priced at $135 per month, offers three data source connections and nine databoards. Customers on this plan can onboard up to 25 users, access 24 months of historical data, and receive 1-hour refresh timeframes.
The Performer plan costs $231 monthly, providing three source connections and unlimited databoards. However, users can increase these limits at additional costs.
In addition, the platform offers a specialized plan for qualified agencies and consulting firms.

5. AgencyAnalytics
AgencyAnalytics is a reporting tool designed specifically for marketing agencies.
AgencyAnalytics is an automated reporting tool specifically built for marketing agencies. 

The platform supports integration with 70 marketing platforms, enabling users to access their marketing data through a single dashboard. However, despite a relatively small number of integrations, AgencyAnalytics does not provide an option for requesting custom integrations. Therefore, users may need to find workarounds when working with custom data.

AgencyAnalytics offers dozens of prebuilt dashboards and report templates, covering various aspects of marketing reporting, including PPC, social media, SEM, SEO, call tracking, email marketing, and more.

Users can also utilize a range of customizable widgets, custom metrics, and white labeling capabilities. 

Pros
AgencyAnalytics focuses on agency owners working with small businesses in various industries and caters to their needs. With its report scheduling feature, agency owners can automate how they share reports with clients—daily, weekly, or monthly.
The platform is lightweight and straightforward, which makes it suitable for non-technical users.
Cons
AgencyAnalytics supports only basic data transformation capabilities, which are suitable for small businesses but cannot meet the needs of mid-market and enterprise companies.
AgencyAnalytics doesn't push data to BI, visualization, or analytics tools, nor does it support integration with data warehouses. Thus, clients don't have an opportunity to dig into raw data or build more complex visualizations.
In general, the platform is more suitable for small-scale marketing agencies.

Marketing agencies with a large number of high-value clients, agencies managing 200-250 Facebook ads on a daily basis, and agencies needing a higher-level data breakdown go with Improvado. Improvado is a solution that comes with advanced features, a large catalog of data source connectors, endless customization options, and is capable of processing large volumes of data. Book a consultation with an Improvado expert to see how the solution can streamline your marketing reporting.

Pricing
AgencyAnalytics offers three pricing tiers: Freelancer, Agency, and Enterprise. Users on all three plans get access to unlimited reports, all 70 integrations, dashboards templates, and the platform's drag-and-drop editor.

The Freelancer plan, priced at $12 per month, allows up to five users and one custom dashboard per campaign.

The Agency plan, priced at $18 per month, opens up unlimited custom dashboards and users. Additionally, they gain access to advanced features like PPC markup, custom metrics, full white labeling, cross-campaign reporting, and more.

The Enterprise plan is a custom pricing plan that provides access to AgencyAnalytics' API, priority support, a dedicated account manager, and other benefits. 


6. DashThis
DashThis is a simple digital marketing reporting tool.
DashThis is a marketing reporting software that helps create functional, flexible, and effective dashboards. 

The platform integrates with over 34 marketing channels, including popular marketing platforms like Google Analytics, LinkedIn Ads, HubSpot, and more. Users can also utilize the Google Sheets integration to connect custom data to their dashboards, or import data using the platform's CSV file tool. However, it's worth noting that some customers have reported inconsistent data quality due to pushing data through flat-file integration.

DashThis-built dashboards are flexible and support the combination of metrics from multiple platforms for cross-channel analytics. In addition, users can access report and widget templates and take advantage of cloning options for quick report generation.

Pros
DashThis supports white-label reporting, which can benefit marketing agencies and increase their client's engagement in the reporting process.
The platform supports a wide range of ways to display the data.
Cons
Some customers complain about limited data granularity, inaccurate data, and poor filtering capabilities.
DashThis lacks enterprise-level functionality and professional services. The tool is equipped for agencies and in-house marketing teams in SMBs and non-profits only.
DashThis may experience lags when working with large volumes of data. Some customers also note that when you reach the max number of API calls for a specific dashboard, you must wait until the next hour to finish the work.
Pricing
DashThis offers four pricing tiers: Individual, Professional, Business, and Standard, priced at $39, $129, $249, and $399 per month, respectively.

Users on all pricing plans gain access to an unlimited number of data source connectors, users, and templates. However, users on the Individual plan only get access to 3 dashboards, Professional plan users get access to 10 dashboards, and Business plan users get 25 dashboards.

7. Looker Studio (Formerly Google Data Studio) 
 Looker Studio is a data visualization and marketing reporting solution.
Looker Studio, previously known as Data Studio, is a business intelligence platform owned by Google. This marketing reporting software enables users to aggregate and analyze data streams from over 800 platforms and applications and share insights with their team members.

To speed up the reporting process, Looker Studio provides the following:

A library with over 200 templates for multiple use cases and data analytics needs.
Drag-and-drop widgets and other customization options for reports.
A report embedding feature that allows dashboards to be embedded into websites or other environments.
While Looker Studio is free to use, Google also offers Looker Studio Pro, which includes additional features such as asset management for enterprises, collaboration tools, and technical support.

Pros
Looker Studio is a highly versatile reporting solution. 800 data source connectors and a variety of advanced features make Looker Studio appealing to professionals from a wide variety of business units and industries.
Cons
Looker Studio has a steep learning curve and isn't a user-friendly solution, and the lack of technical support makes it more challenging for new users to master.
The Looker Studio paid version is incredibly pricey, even for enterprise customers. The billing is based on the user's data usage and underlying queries, which quickly piles up. 
The unique pay-per-go pricing model restrains Looker Studio customers from scaling operations.
Pricing
Enterprise customers can upgrade to Looker Studio Pro to receive support and expanded administrative features. Upgrading requires a Google Cloud account.


How to Choose a Marketing Reporting Tool
When choosing marketing reporting software, there is rarely an all-in-one option. Even if the software claims it can handle everything, chances are there will be one or two holes in the feature set. Every marketing team is different, and what’s “all-in-one” to you may not be to someone else. 

Still, there are a few features every marketing team should look for in a reporting tool.


1. Automation
A marketing reporting tool lacking automation isn’t worth your time. A huge benefit to investing in this type of software is the ability to streamline your workflow and increase productivity. Automation is the way forward, which makes it a critical element in your marketing reporting software. 

2. Customization 
There’s no one-size-fits-all model for marketing reporting tools, so your chosen software needs to allow for customization. Determining which metrics are most vital to your organization and which you want to display for your clients is a critical part of the process.

Your marketing channel focus is another crucial factor. If you work with Facebook and LinkedIn more than web content, you likely need to prioritize social media on your dashboard. In this case, you need a flexible dashboard and capable reporting software. 

All businesses must have the scalability conversation at some point. Automated reporting tools allow you to grow more quickly and easily. 


3. Visualization 
While this might be optional for certain companies and isn’t included in every marketing reporting software, visualization can be critical. A key benefit of investment in reporting and analytics tools is the ability to showcase your data in a digestible format.

For most marketing teams, a robust data visualization option is non-negotiable. Look for software that displays your data in a way that feels intuitive to your workflow to make integration seamless.


Transform Your Data into Actionable Insights with Improvado
When you must develop, evaluate, and execute comprehensive marketing strategies, you deal with large volumes of data. You need a solution that can handle any data you need and present it in an easy-to-analyze format. 

Improvado is an advanced marketing reporting software that aggregates your data, prepares it for analysis, and pushes it to your analytics, BI, or visualization tool of choice. Improvado provides a solution with a short learning curve from which marketing teams of all sizes can benefit. Ultimately, the solution streamlines reporting and helps maximize the effectiveness of your marketing and sales efforts. Book a consultation today to learn more about Improvado and how it can improve your operations. 


Denis Khalturin
Data Analyst at Improvado