SEO Dashboard: Best Solution for Tracking Search Metrics

NIKITA BYKADAROV
FEBRUARY 22, 2023
Did you know 68% of all online experiences start with a search engine? No wonder search engine optimization (SEO) continues to be one of the most widely used marketing tools in the business. But it can be challenging to do well.

SEO is a complicated beast, so much so that it’s difficult for executives and clients to understand the value it brings to their marketing efforts. Not to mention the intense competition businesses face when vying for popular keywords. 

Fortunately, all can be made easier with a dedicated SEO dashboard at your fingertips. 


What Is an SEO Dashboard?
An example of an SEO dashboard 
An SEO dashboard is a third-party SEO KPI reporting interface that gathers all of your SEO analytical data into a single, uniform report. By pulling data from multiple analytics sources, SEO dashboards provide a crystal clear picture of your SEO performance across the web. 

This isn’t just a surface-level look at how many keywords you’re ranking for. SEO dashboards offer insights into the most granular details and metrics of an SEO approach, helping you better understand the reality of your link-building strategies, technical SEO specs, session averages, and more. 

12 best marketing dashboard templates to uncover actionable insights
EXPLORE
SEO Dashboard Benefits
If you’re well-versed in Google Analytics, Moz, and other SEO tools, you may not think you need a separate SEO reporting dashboard. After all, many of these tools are free and offer the same flexibility; what makes an SEO dashboard any different? These four benefits will spell it out for you.

Single Source of Information
The most obvious benefit of an SEO dashboard is the convenience of your data. You won’t have to search for it anymore as it will all be conveniently located in an easy-to-consume interface.


Efficient SEO Reports
Relying on free SEO tools might work for you, but compiling an SEO report from all of that data is time-consuming. It can take hours to pull data from each resource and even longer to root out duplicate data sets tracked by multiple SEO tools. An SEO dashboard enables you to pull information from multiple sources in one place to deliver faster reports.

Easily Understood Visual Charts
Don’t give your decision-makers a long list of numbers to scratch their heads at. SEO dashboards provide thorough and detailed informational charts and graphics to clearly communicate your SEO performance.


Detailed Competitor Insights
SEO is all about how you rank compared to the competition. Therefore, no SEO strategy is complete without in-depth competitor analysis insights. Your SEO dashboard provides regular (daily, monthly, weekly, you name it) rank changes and compares those rankings to see exactly how well you stack up to the competition.


Metrics to Track in an SEO Dashboard
The more data you have on your SEO performance, the better decisions you can make. But which metrics provide the information you need to make the right decisions from your SEO dashboard? 

Organic Traffic
Organic traffic indicates the number of people who start a session on your website from a search engine query. This is directly related to the primary goal of SEO: driving traffic to your website. This metric tells you whether your SEO contributed to a rise (or fall) in website traffic.


SEO Ranking Change
SEO ranking changes are the number of search engine results page (SERP) ranking increases for a given keyword. For example, if your keyword went from ranking 42 on Google to 25, that would be a change of +17. This number looks at all positive and negative changes to give you a quick snapshot of the overall trend of your SEO rankings.

Current 1st Rankings
Current 1st rankings track how many keywords your website currently ranks for in the first position on a search engine. This is the most valuable position—garnering 27.6% of all clicks on Google. The more first-position rankings you have, the better your chance of getting more traffic (and conversions).

CTR distribution across different SERP positions 
Top Landing Pages
Top landing pages are the pages on your website that attract the most traffic. In terms of SEO, this often means these pages are top performers for their keywords or that the content is highly shareable. Whatever the case, knowing which landing pages are the highest performing can help inform your promotion strategy for future campaigns.

Conversions
Conversions in an SEO dashboard reveal how many conversions on your website came from an organic session. While rankings and organic sessions may help you generate ad revenue, they don’t directly contribute to your sales. Therefore, conversion metrics illustrate how effectively your SEO strategy inspires actual sales.


Link-Building Metrics
Link-building metrics include backlinks gained and lost, which shows how many other websites currently link to yours. Backlinks are a significant ranking factor for SEO, giving Google a general idea of how reliable and relevant your website is. 

CTR
Clickthrough rate (CTR) refers to how often your links are clicked versus how often they’re shown. If your search result garnered 25 clicks after showing up 100 times on the SERP, you would have a CTR of 25%. As a frame of reference, the first result on Google usually attracts a 39.6% CTR, more than double the second result (18.4%).


Local SEO Ranking Change
Local SEO ranking change signifies how many local keywords you currently rank for. This includes keywords and phrases encompassing the city or state in which you’re based. If your company deals with a local audience or has a physical store location, local keywords will help you attract a local audience.

Site Audit Score
Site audit scores alert you to any technical on-site errors which may be affecting how website crawlers scan and index your site. This includes errors like duplicate content, server errors, long load times, and missing meta tags. These unseen elements can have a drastic effect on your SEO performance.


Average Review Rating
Average review rating shows you the average star rating of your business on Google. While reviews don’t directly contribute to your search engine ranking ability, they give your audience a glimpse into how well-received your company is in the public eye. If you have low reviews, your audience is much less likely to want to check out your services.

For a complete picture of how data can (and should) transform your marketing goals, check out our Data Culture in Marketing Analytics guide. 
Best Practices for SEO Dashboards
Now that we’ve clarified which SEO metrics you need to focus on, it’s time to discuss how you can use your SEO dashboard to the best of your ability. The following are four best practices everyone should use for their dashboard.

1. Include KPIs Relevant to Business Goals
Prioritize the KPIs and metrics most relevant to your business goals. If you’re pushing an awareness campaign, focus on CTR and organic traffic. If you’re running an SEO campaign, focus on SEO ranking changes and total first-ranking keywords. 

This doesn’t mean you should stop tracking metrics that aren’t immediately relevant to your campaign—they may help diagnose problems in your greater marketing strategy. Just make sure to track the success of your goals according to the appropriate metrics.


2. Use Multiple Data Sources
The whole point of an SEO dashboard is to get more organization out of your data. If you’re just relying on a single source of information, like Google Analytics, you won’t gain any new insights from a consolidated dashboard.

If you’re looking for other SEO tools to integrate into your dashboard, consider services like:

MOZ to gain fresh insight into your SEO visibility.
Skai to evaluate the behavior and demographics of search user groups.
Google Analytics 4 to access all of Google’s inherent search tools (like Search Console).
Bing Webmaster Tools to capture your audience using Bing (which currently maintains the second largest market share for search engines).
It also helps to keep up with the latest trends in SEO. For example, have you considered how voice search affects your SEO capabilities? The rising popularity of voice assistants has led many to focus on more conversational keywords and create FAQ content.

3. Make Reports Easy to Digest
It’s essential to clearly communicate your findings in all of your reports. SEO dashboards allow you to attach notes and comments to build a story around your data. This helps you summarize essential information, define terminology, and insert actionable insights regarding your data.

Be sure to use plenty of charts and graphs in your report! Data visualization is critical for improving understanding and defining the bigger picture of your data.


4. Don’t Use Technical Jargon
When delivering your reports, try to limit the amount of technical jargon. While technical terms may be correct and accurate, using too many can be exhaustive to get through—especially for your decision-makers who may be unfamiliar with SEO basics. Spell out acronyms, use synonyms whenever possible, and err on the side of over-explanation just to be safe.


Uncover In-Depth SEO Insights with Improvado
Developing an optimized SEO dashboard doesn’t have to be a huge burden—especially when you partner with Improvado to do it for you. 

How to Set Up an Improvado-Powered SEO Dashboard
Improvado is an advanced marketing analytics solution that builds upon your existing business intelligence (BI) tools to ensure your operating platform is familiar, like Google Data Studio. There’s no need to waste time learning a new marketing tool when yours works perfectly fine—Improvado simply improves upon what’s already there.

If you don’t already have a dashboard in place, Improvado has a variety of marketing dashboard templates you can export to create a customizable SEO dashboard that’s right for you.


How Improvado Works
Improvado focuses on three primary solutions to deliver the best SEO dashboard:

Automatically pulls data from all of your sources: No matter how many data sources you employ in your SEO strategy, your dashboard only gathers the most relevant data.
Transforms your data into consumable content: Improvado deletes duplicate data and unifies disparate naming conventions, making your data consistent and accurate.
Delivers data for analysis: Improvado pushes analysis-ready data to a visualization or BI tool of your choice. Your data takes on new life with charts and graphs that provide real, actionable insights. 
The platform streamlines the data collection process to cut out mundane data entry tasks, improving productivity and minimizing errors.

Every marketer should let analytics influence their SEO decisions. Seems like a good idea, right? Despite that sentiment, only 54% of marketing decisions are actually backed by data insights. Connect with an Improvado expert for a 30-minute consultation to start changing the pattern.

Build a highly customizable SEO dashboard with Improvado
Enter work email

Nikita Bykadarov
VP of Demand Generation
Nikita Bykadarov is a VP of Demand Generation at Improvado. While working on different projects and marketing campaigns, Nikita is always happy to share his knowledge and thoughts on current trends in the marketing field.